GettingStartedJobStream.md, before:

# Stream API for job ads - getting started

The aim of this text is to walk you through what you're seeing in the [Swagger-UI](https://jobstream.api.jobtechdev.se) to help you download all the job ads being published to Arbetsförmedlingen. This is much easier than using the search API to download all content. The jobstream API is best used indexing the ads by their id in your backend.

# Table of Contents
* [Authentication](#Authentication)
* [Endpoints](#Endpoints)
* [Results](#Results)
* [Errors](#Errors)



## Short introduction

The only endpoint for the ads stream API is:

* [Stream](#Stream) - returning all active ads that have been updated after a given moment.

The easiest way to try out the API is to go to the [swagger page](https://jobstream.api.jobtechdev.se/).
But first you need a key which you need to authenticate yourself.

## Authentication
For this API, you will need to register to get your own API key at [apirequest.jobtechdev.se](https://apirequest.jobtechdev.se)

## Endpoints
Below we only show the URLs. If you prefer the curl command, you type it like:

	curl "{URL}" -H "accept: application/json" -H "api-key: {proper_key}"
	
### Stream 
/stream?{YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS}

The stream endpoint will give you the job ads that are currently open for application. Along with removals and updates of those ads. 
	
You are required to give a certain time point from when you want your ads in the format YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS, for example 2021-01-11T10:00:00. Rate limit is one request per minute. An organisation that wants to keep up a realtime copy of all the ads from Arbetsformedlingen would have their app doing this: 

	/stream?date=2020-02-03T10:00:00
	/stream?date=2020-02-03T10:01:00
	/stream?date=2020-02-03T10:02:00


If you’re looking for more advanced search options, please check our [JobSearch API](https://jobtechdev.se/docs/apis/jobsearch/).

## Results
The results of your queries will be in [JSON](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON) format. We won't attempt to explain the ad objects attribute by attribute in this document. Instead we've decided to try to include this in the data model which you can find in our [Swagger GUI](https://jobsearch.api.jobtechdev.se).

Successful queries will have a response code of 200 and give you a result set that consists of:
1. Some meta data about your search such as number of hits and the time it took to execute the query and 
2. The ad events that happened within the timespan you set. 

These events can be of 3 different kinds: New ads, updated ads, and removed ads. New and updated will look the same, the only thing that distinguishes them from each other is that an updated ad has an ID that's already in the database of open ads. 

A removal object looks like this:

	{
	    "id": 8460272,
	    "removed": true,
	    "removed_date": "2020-01-13T13:03:26"
	  }

These are typically grouped together in your result set so if you're request has a larger timespan than a few minutes you may have to scroll to se actual job ads.

## Errors
Unsuccessful queries will have a response code of:

| HTTP Status code | Reason | Explanation |
| ------------- | ------------- | -------------|
| 400 | Bad Request | Something wrong in the query |
| 401 | Unauthorized | You are not using a valid API key |
| 429 | Rate limit exceeded | You requested too much during too short time |
| 500 | Internal Server Error | Something wrong on the server side |

Commit message:

Jobstream: new parameter 'update-before-date', new endpoint /snapshot, removed sentence about metadata (search only)

GettingStartedJobStream.md, after:

# Stream API for job ads - getting started

The aim of this text is to walk you through what you're seeing in the [Swagger-UI](https://jobstream.api.jobtechdev.se) to help you download all the job ads being published to Arbetsförmedlingen. This is much easier than using the search API to download all content. The jobstream API is best used indexing the ads by their id in your backend.

# Table of Contents
* [Authentication](#Authentication)
* [Endpoints](#Endpoints)
* [Results](#Results)
* [Errors](#Errors)



## Short introduction

The endpoints for the ads stream API are:

* [Stream](#Stream) - returning all active ads that have been updated after a given moment, or between two timestamps.

* [Snapshot](#Snapshot) - returning all active ads.

The easiest way to try out the API is to go to the [swagger page](https://jobstream.api.jobtechdev.se/).
But first you need a key which you need to authenticate yourself.

## Authentication
For this API, you will need to register to get your own API key at [apirequest.jobtechdev.se](https://apirequest.jobtechdev.se)

## Endpoints
Below we only show the URLs. If you prefer the curl command, you type it like:

	curl "{URL}" -H "accept: application/json" -H "api-key: {proper_key}"
	
### Stream 
/stream

The stream endpoint will give you the job ads that are currently open for application. Along with removals and updates of those ads. 
	
You are required to give a certain time point from when you want your ads in the format YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS, for example 2021-01-11T10:00:00. Rate limit is one request per minute. An organisation that wants to keep up a realtime copy of all the ads from Arbetsformedlingen would have their app doing this: 

	/stream?date=2020-02-03T10:00:00
	/stream?date=2020-02-03T10:01:00
	/stream?date=2020-02-03T10:02:00

Alternatively, you can specify a date range to get all ads (that are currently open for application) within that range: 
    
    /stream?date=2020-02-03T10:00:00&updated-before-date=2020-01-01T00:00:00


### Snapshot
/snapshot

The snapshot endpoint will give you the job ads that are currently open for application. Along with removals and updates of those ads. No parameters are needed.
	
	
	
If you’re looking for more advanced search options, please check our [JobSearch API](https://jobtechdev.se/docs/apis/jobsearch/).

## Results
The results of your queries will be in [JSON](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON) format. We won't attempt to explain the ad objects attribute by attribute in this document. Instead we've decided to try to include this in the data model which you can find in our [Swagger GUI](https://jobsearch.api.jobtechdev.se).

Successful queries will have a response code of 200 and give you a result set that consists of the ad events that happened within the timespan you set. 

These events can be of 3 different kinds: New ads, updated ads, and removed ads. New and updated will look the same, the only thing that distinguishes them from each other is that an updated ad has an ID that's already in the database of open ads. 

A removal object looks like this:

	{
	    "id": 8460272,
	    "removed": true,
	    "removed_date": "2020-01-13T13:03:26"
	  }

These are typically grouped together in your result set so if you're request has a larger timespan than a few minutes you may have to scroll to se actual job ads.

## Errors
Unsuccessful queries will have a response code of:

| HTTP Status code | Reason | Explanation |
| ------------- | ------------- | -------------|
| 400 | Bad Request | Something wrong in the query |
| 401 | Unauthorized | You are not using a valid API key |
| 429 | Rate limit exceeded | You requested too much during too short time |
| 500 | Internal Server Error | Something wrong on the server side |
